Among other old homesteaders in Axemann are the Owens family.  Jerry Owens is the third and his children the fourth generation of Owens to live in his present residence.  It was bought by Josiah Owens, his grandfather, who emigrated from Blaenavon, Wales, in 1869. 
 

            They came to Bellefonte because a brother-in-law, John Havard, was already here, as was another family, the Morgans, who were friends.  At that time, Havards lived up Irish Hollow.  All were employed in the mine banks, the Havards and Morgans in the one up back of Axemann and Josiah Owens a little latter in the one called Logan Furnace.
 

            The Morgan family walked into Bellefonte to meet the new arrivals.  Grace M. Jodon remember seeing them returning together.  She said the women were wearing kerchiefs on their heads as they did in the Old Country.
 

            Owens first worked at building a road from the Forge up to what is now the Al Grove farm on top of the hill, then owned by the Housers.
 

            After his day's work was done and the night had come, he called his family together and had family worship.  The old Bible he used is still in possession of his youngest son, Ed, who is employed at the Bellefonte Hardware Company.  It is much worn and falls open at many favorite reading places.
 

            On Sundays the little family walked to Milesburg where church was held after the Baptist fashion.  Mr. Owens would carry one child and his wife another, the rest walked beside their parents.  Eight more came after they lived in Axemann and when the Methodists started class in the school house and organized their church, the Owens family joined it as it was nearer

their home.
 

            The elder Owens had only three weeks' schooling.  In Britain at that time, a man had to pay to send his children to school.  There was not enough money to send all the children so Josiah has to stay at home.  But when his brother who attended was taken ill and had to remain at home with the tuition going out just the same, Josiah had his place in school.  After that, he studied from the Bible and so learned to read.
 

            When Ed as 10 years old his mother died.  Ella, now Mrs. Gfrer, was 14 and she became the housekeeper for the boys and her father.  All the other girls were married and gone.  All had had a wedding in the little house and she, too, in turn, had a wedding with 60 quests present.  But she could not leave her father alone, and so with her husband she stayed in the old house until Josiah was laid to rest.  Then they went to keeping house by themselves.
 

            The old home became the property of William, a son, who improved and enlarged it, but who now lives on a farm in Vicksburg while a nephew is in the house.  The rest of the family still living includes Rose in Altoona, Joe in Pittsburgh and Mary, the oldest of all, 87, in Johnstown.
 

            In 1932, Ed, more formally Edward R. Owens, went abroad to visit the old home of his ancestors.  From that trip he wrote and published a booklet of the places he saw and illustrated many of the scenes.  It is delightfully written and full of information.  Four years of school teaching and 36 years in the hardware business, the first 18 with Potter-Hoy, the remainder where he now is, accounts for his employment.
